
\section{Research Background} \label{sec:related}

TBD.

\subsection{Related Work by Others} \label{sec:others-work}

\para{State machine replication (SMR).}  SMR has been studied by the literature 
for decades, and it is recognized by both industry and academia as a powerful 
fault-tolerance technique in clouds and distributed systems~\cite{lamportclock, 
smr:tutorial}. As a common standard, SMR uses \paxos~\cite{paxos} as the 
consensue protocol to ensure that all replicas see the same input request 
sequence. In this standard, replicas first ``agree" on a total order of input 
request as a input sequence, and then ``execute" the requests that have reached 
this consensus. This typical SMR approach is called ``agree-execute". SMR 
systems, including Chubby~\cite{chubby:osdi}, ZooKeeper~\cite{zookeeper}, and 
the Microsoft \paxos~\cite{paxos} implementation, have been widely used to 
maintain critical distributed systems configurations (\eg, group leaders, 
distributed locks, and storage meta data). SMR has also been applied broadly to 
build various highly available services, including 
storage~\cite{paxos:datastore} and wide-area 
network~\cite{mencius:osdi08}. These systems all require single-threading in 
the replicated service.

%% Work to support multi-threading.
In order to support multi-threading in SMR, Eve~\cite{eve:osdi12} introduces a 
new ``execute-verify" approach: it first executes a batch of requests 
speculatively, and then verifies whether these requests have conflicts that 
cause execution state divergence. If so, Eve rolls back the program to a state 
before executing these requests and re-execute these requests sequentially. 
Both Eve's execution divergence verification and rollbacks require developers 
to annotate all shared states (\eg, global variables abd heaps) of a program, 
which could be time consuming and error-prone. CBASE~\cite{cbase:dsn04} is 
similar to Eve, but it assumes no conflicts on requests it batches.

Rex~\cite{rex:eurosys14} addresses the thread interleaving divergence problem 
with a ``execute-agree-follow" approach: it first records thread interleavings 
on the primary replica by executing requests, and then replays these 
interleavings on the other replicas. If the executed interleavings in the 
primary may not be agreed on the other nodes, then Rex will rollback the 
primary's states. These rollbacks/checkpoints also require developers' manual 
efforts for every program. Furthermore, Rex requires frequently shipping thread 
interleavings across replicas, which may be much slower than our \smt approach 
that schedules each replica indepently. NonStop Advanced 
Architecture~\cite{nonstop:dsn05} is similar to Rex, but it can only do 
replications on a local machine.

There are other work that support restricted concurrency such as 
transactions~\cite{vandiver:sosp07, kobus:icdcs13} in SMR, but they are not for 
replicating general multi-threaded programs.

\para{\smt and \dmt systems.}  In order to make multi-threading easier to 
undertand, test, analyze, and replicate, researchers have built two types of 
reliabile multi-threading systems: (1) stable multi-threading systems (or 
\smt)~\cite{grace:oopsla09, dthreads:sosp11, determinator:osdi10} that aim to 
reduce the number of possible thread interleavings for program all inputs, and 
(2) deterministic multi-threading systems (or \dmt)~\cite{dpj:oopsla09, 
dmp:asplos09, kendo:asplos09, coredet:asplos10, dos:osdi10, ddos:asplos13, 
ics:oopsla13} that aim to reduce the number of possible thread interleavings on 
each program input. Typically, these systems use deterministic logical clocks 
instead of nondeterministic physical clocks to make sure inter-thread 
communications (\eg, \mutexlock and accesses to global variables) can only 
happen at some specific logical clocks. Therefore, given the same or similar 
inupts, these systems can enforce the same thread interleavings and eventually 
the same executions. These systems 
have shown to greatly improve software reliability, including coverage of 
testing inputs~\cite{ics:oopsla13} and speed of recording 
executions\cite{dos:osdi10} for debugging.

Typical DMT systems, including \kendo~\cite{kendo:asplos09}, 
\coredet~\cite{coredet:asplos10}, and \coredet-related 
systems~\cite{dos:osdi10, ddos:asplos13}, improve performance by balancing each 
thread's load with low-level instruction counts, so they are not stable to input 
perturbations. Therefore, we argue that \smt is more useful than \dmt for 
software reliability.



\subsection{Related Work by the PI} \label{sec:my-work}

A key requirement to making SMR practically support multi-threading is that all 
replicas must run the same thread interleavings so that the replica executions 
won't diverge. \smt~\cite{smt:cacm}, an advanced reliable multi-threading 
runtime technique invented by my collaborators and me, meets this requirement. 
This is because \smt can greatly reduce the number of possible thread 
interleavings in multi-threaded programs for all inputs with low performance 
overhead, making replications of multi-threaded programs almost as easy as 
single-threaded ones. In the last four years, the PI has been collaborating 
with Columbia and CMU researchers to build three \smt systems, 
\tern~\cite{cui:tern:osdi10}, \peregrine~\cite{peregrine:sosp11}, and 
\parrot~\cite{parrot:sosp13}, with each addressing distinct research 
challenges. Notably, \parrot, our latest system, is the first \smt runtime 
system that is fast (12.7\% mean overhead for all evaluated programs) on a wide 
range of 100+ popular multi-threaded programs. We have 
put all \parrot's source code and raw evaluation results on 
\url{http://github.com/columbia/smt-mc} for future research and industrial 
deployments. Due to \parrot's high practicality, we plan to leverage it in this 
proposed \msmr system.

To show \smt's potential, we have applied these systems to greatly improving 
software reliability and security, including improving precision and simplicity 
of program analysis and verification~\cite{wu:pldi12}, making debugging 
concurrency errors much easier~\cite{cui:tern:osdi10}, and improving coverage 
of model checking~\cite{parrot:sosp13}. Our work have also been leveraged by 
the community: some techniques in our \tern system~\cite{cui:tern:osdi10} has 
been used by University of Washington Seatle researchers on computing a small 
set of thread interleavings covering all inputs~\cite{ics:oopsla13}, and our 
\parrot runtime system has been integrated with a CMU software model 
checker~\cite{dbug:spin11}.

%%Our experience on building \smt runtime sytems can address the two 
aforementioned major research challanges of the \smt and SMR integration. In 
addition, our techniques on program analysis, verification, and model checking 
can be deployed in \msmr replicas and enhance their reliability and security.


